

1. Why use containers?

   We have developer supplied code for execution in the cloud. Also, this developer supplied
   code is running on the web.

   So we need to limit the application's resource usage. By having a container running a particular
   application instance, we can precisely control application resource usage. Also, accounting
   is done properly too.

   Data isolation is another reason to use containers.

   How about different ways of application sharing - concurrent application usage?
   How does data get protected then?

   Also, what happens when the application needs to use other external services to data
   exchange? Like accessing social data from OSN services that are maintained by outside
   providers.

   = How to authenticate to such services?
   = How to authorize actions?
   = What credentials to use


2. What is the notion of users?

   An instance of an application is actually on a per user basis. That is, an instance of
   an application is denoted by a 'thing' or 'user controlled service'. The user is
   assumed to be control of this device or service. So there is a 'what you have' factor.
   Also, there may be a 'what you know' factor because the device or service might have
   local security measure.

   When a user activates an application instance, it starts running in the cloud and has
   a 'face' on the web as well. By default we have a single face on the web. How does this
   face or the web browser authenticate or authorize access?

   = Web browser needs authentication of the user trying get access is around.
   = A sound-based authentication protocol is ideal for this -- we assume 'connected mobile' here.
   = Could there be a situation where we have multiple faces? I am not sure whether there
     is a compelling use case for this situation.


3. How do we protect against device loss?

   Like Knox, we could have a mandatory local credential - password, fingerprint scan,
   etc to validate the user. This could be done per session to increase the level of
   trust that can be placed on the device.
