New Ideas
=========

Multi-Fog Ideas
---------------

Hookup multiple fogs - this is easy. We could just make multi-fog 
to device association through the broker. We don't need to worry about 
single point broker problem because brokers don't fail as fog servers.
But, brokers could introduce a "triangular routing" issue. We could be 
going to distant broker to connect to a close by fog server. 

We need to modify the code to talk to multiple Redis servers. 

The "fog set" is like a moveable set - we add some and delete some
as the device keeps moving. 

So.. we need an intelligent fog set allocation algorithm?

Clock Pulse Distribution
------------------------

Create a clock pulse distribution protocol. The main purpose is to make a clock that is 
independent of the data store. This way the data ordering does not depend on replication. 

Do we need to wait for the clock pulse to join? Yes, we need to wait for the 
beginning of the clock pulse to join the system. However, we can join sub-machines 
at any given time. Because we still have a logical clock even if we are momentarily 
out-of-the system. 

JCond or Jtask improvements
---------------------------
* A way to specify default behaviour such as combining etc. 

Tensorflow integration
----------------------

Function for Rent (Edge Functions)
----------------------------------

Controlled way of crowdsourcing functionality in edge-oriented IoT.

Like serverless functions - the difference is that the functions are rented at edge.

(a) Edge would ask for functions and get functions from the devices that are closeby.
(b) Edge could lend that function to another device passing by.
    The two devices can use the function to collaborate. Collaboration is carefully 
    restricted. Almost like a capability-based design.
        Device -> device (through the edge) pattern

Edge functions vs jamtask -- what are the differences?

        jamtask is a handle given out for an executing task. It is not a way 
        to run the function again - at least the way we thought earlier. 

        Edge function is a function returned by a device. Like values, but functions. 

        jamtask is not going to allow us to run the function (again) or get the 
        return value - in fact, there is no return value for an asynchronous function.

        So, we can use jamtask to jwait(jamtask) to wait for a task's execution. 
        To find out how many instances of the task were run. We can use this to 
        stream the results. Of course, result streaming must use the logger. 

